# 5.1. Communication Protocols
---

## Contents
- 5.1.1 Communication Protocols
- 5.1.2 Why Protocols Matter
- 5.1.3 Check Your Understanding - Communication Protocols

## Notes
### 5.1.1 Communication Protocols
Communication in our daily lives takes many forms and occurs in many environments. We have different expectations depending on whether we are chatting via the internet or participating in a job interview. Each situation has its corresponding expected behaviors and styles.

Before beginning to communicate with each other, we establish rules or agreements to govern the conversation. These agreements include the following:

- What method of communication should we use?
- What language should we use?
- Do we need to confirm that our messages are received?

#### Method
1. Uses sign language... *(person 1)*

2. Writes note: Can we use written notes? *(person 2)*

3. Writes note: Sorry I do not understand signing. *(person 2)*

4. Writes note: Yes, that will be fine. *(person 1)*

Before communication can begin, we may have to reach an agreement on the method used.

#### Language
1. I can speak Japanese and English. *(person 1)*
2. I can speak Spanish and English. *(person 2)*
3. Then we can communicate in English. *(person 1)*

Before communication can begin, we may have to reach an agreement on the language used.

#### Confirmation
1. I would like to order three black shirts, size medium. *(person 1)*
2. Yes, I understand your order: three medium, black shirts. *(person 2)*
3. Yes, that is correct. Thank you.*(person 1)*

Communication is successful when the intended message has been received and confirmed.

These rules, or protocols, must be followed in order for the message to be successfully delivered and understood. Among the protocols that govern successful human communication are these:

- An identified sender and receiver
- Agreed upon method of communicating (face-to-face, telephone, letter, photograph)
- Common language and grammar
- Speed and timing of delivery
- Confirmation or acknowledgment requirements
The techniques that are used in network communications share these fundamentals with human conversations.

Think about the commonly accepted protocols for sending text messages to your friends.

### 5.1.2 Why Protocols Matter
Just like humans, computers use rules, or protocols, in order to communicate. Protocols are required for computers to properly communicate across the network. In both a wired and wireless environment, a local network is defined as an area where all hosts must "speak the same language", which, in computer terms means they must "share a common protocol".

If everyone in the same room spoke a different language, they would not be able to communicate. Likewise, if devices in a local network did not use the same protocols, they would not be able to communicate.

Networking protocols define many aspects of communication over the local network. As shown in the table, these include message format, message size, timing, encoding, encapsulation, and message patterns.

|Protocol Characteristic|Description|
|:--:|:--:|
|Message format|When a message is sent, it must use a specific format or structure. Message formats depend on the type of message and the channel that is used to deliver the message.|
|Message size|The rules that govern the size of the pieces communicated across the network are very strict. They can also be different, depending on the channel used. When a long message is sent from one host to another over a network, it may be necessary to break the message into smaller pieces in order to ensure that the message can be delivered reliably.|
|Timing|Many network communication functions are dependent on timing. Timing determines the speed at which the bits are transmitted across the network. It also affects when an individual host can send data and the total amount of data that can be sent in any one transmission.|
|Encoding|Messages sent across the network are first converted into bits by the sending host. Each bit is encoded into a pattern of sounds, light waves, or electrical impulses depending on the network media over which the bits are transmitted. The destination host receives and decodes the signals in order to interpret the message.|
|Encapsulation|Each message transmitted on a network must include a header that contains addressing information that identifies the source and destination hosts, otherwise it cannot be delivered. Encapsulation is the process of adding this information to the pieces of data that make up the message. In addition to addressing, there may be other information in the header that ensures that the message is delivered to the correct application on the destination host.|
|Message pattern|Some messages require an acknowledgment before the next message can be sent. This type of request/response pattern is a common aspect of many networking protocols. However, there are other types of messages that may be simply streamed across the network, without concern as to whether they reach their destination.|

### 5.1.3 Check Your Understanding - Communication Protocols
#### Question 1
Bianka, a Polish traveler in Hanoi, Vietnam, stops and asks Nguyệt for directions to the Ngoc Son Temple. They verbally communicate and determine that they both speak English. After receiving directions in English to the temple, Bianka repeats them to Nguyệt. Nguyệt says, "Yes, that is correct." Select the order of the communications protocols used in this scenario?
- [ ] method, confirmation, language
- [x] method, language, confirmation
- [ ] confirmation, method, language
- [ ] language, method, confirmation

#### Question 2
Rory is studying the fields inside an Ethernet frame for an upcoming test and notices that the destination Media Access Control (MAC) address is listed first before the source MAC address. Which of the following protocol characteristics is Rory investigating?

- [ ] encoding
- [ ] message pattern
- [ ] message timing
- [ ] timing
- [x] encapsulation

#### Question 3
As Rory continues to study Ethernet, he discovers that a frame can typically be 64 to 1518 bytes of information that is converted into a series of bits before being sent out on the network. Which two protocol characteristics did Rory learn about for Ethernet?

- [ ] encapsulation
- [x] encoding
- [ ] message pattern
- [ ] timing
- [x] message size
