# 5.2 Communication Standards

## Contents
- 5.2.1 Video - Devices in a Bubble
- 5.2.2 The Internet and Standards
- 5.2.3 Network Standards Organizations
- 5.2.4 Check Your Understanding - Communications Standards

##  Notes
### 5.2.1 Video - Devices in a Bubble
The video shows how we see the network versus how computer sees a network.

To see how the device sees the network, think of it like every device being in it's own bubble. The only the device know is its own addressing information. In other words, device doesn't "sees" the network. If device doesn't "sees" the network then how about these questions:

- What is my addressing information? What network am i on?
- Is the destination device on my network or is it on another network?
- where do I send information When the destination device is on a different network?
- Did the destination device receive the information I sent?
- Do I need to resend any information?

The answer to all these questions is "Protocol". Most network communication are broken up into smaller data units—which we can refer to as packets. When packets are sent on a network, many protocols are involved to help them reach their final destination, each accomplishing a different task.

there are protocols such as ethernet and wireless protocols that physically connect the device to the network. The protocols DHCP and ICMPv6 provide IP addressing information including IP addressing that tells the device what network it belongs to, the address of the default gateway that tells the device where to send packets that are destined for anothe network and the address of the DNS server for when a device knows the domain name of the destination, but needs the destination's IP address.

### 5.2.2 The Internet and Standards
With the increasing number of new devices and technologies coming online, how is it possible to manage all the changes and still reliably deliver services such as email? The answer is internet standards.

A standard is a set of rules that determines how something must be done. Networking and internet standards ensure that all devices connecting to the network implement the same set of rules or protocols in the same manner. Using standards, it is possible for different types of devices to send information to each other over the internet. For example, the way in which an email is formatted, forwarded, and received by all devices is done according to a standard. If one person sends an email via a personal computer, another person can use a mobile phone to receive and read the email as long as the mobile phone uses the same standards as the personal computer.

### 5.2.3 Network Standards Organizations
An internet standard is the end result of a comprehensive cycle of discussion, problem solving, and testing. These different standards are developed, published, and maintained by a variety of organizations. When a new standard is proposed, each stage of the development and approval process is recorded in a numbered Request for Comments (RFC) document so that the evolution of the standard is tracked. RFCs for internet standards are published and managed by the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF).


### 5.2.4 Check Your Understanding - Communications Standards
#### Question 1
The rules that govern network communications including the message format, message size, timing, and encapsulation, are known as network:

- [ ] signaling
- [x] protocols
- [ ] encoding
- [ ] messaging
> Result: correct

#### Question 2
The IETF (Internet Engineering Task Force) records and publishes internet standards in documents known as:

- [ ] Internet Protocol Standards (IPS)
- [ ] Internet Specification Standards (ISS)
- [x] Request for Comments (RFC)
- [ ] IETF Standards Documents (ISD)
> Result: correct





