# 1.1 The World of Cybersecurity
---

## Content:
- [What I See](#what-i-see)
- [1.1.1 What is Cybersecurity](#what-is-cybersecurity)
- 1.1.2 Protecting Your Personal Data
- 1.1.3 Your Online identity
- 1.1.4 Your Data
- 1.1.5 Where is Your Data?
- 1.1.6 What's More...
- 1.1.7 Smart Devices
- 1.1.8 What Do Hackers Want?
- 1.1.9 Identity Theft
- 1.1.10 Who Else Wants My Data?
---

## My Understanding
- What I See
  - 
    My first scroll there is a guy named guru — seems Guru is like your in-course mentor/guide, and Apollo is the fictional company you're "working for" throughout the modules in this course. There is also shield points in top right of my screen, it says "Completing the following activities correctly can earn you defender points".

- What is Cybersecurity
  - 
    Cybersecurity is to protect the individuals, organizations and goverments from digital attacks. These are the three levels:
    - **Personal**
    > On a personal level, you need to safeguard your identity, your data, and your computing devices.
    - **Organizational**
    > At an organizational level, it is everyone’s responsibility to protect the organization’s reputation, data and customers.
    - **Goverment**
    > As more digital information is being gathered and shared, its protection becomes even more vital at the government level, where national security, economic stability and the safety and wellbeing of citizens are at stake.

- Protecting Your Personal Data
  - 
    Personal data is information that identify as you and identity can exist both offline and onlline.
    - **Offline identity**
    > This is you personal identity and how you present in physical world, like your address, full name and age.
    - **Onlline identity**
    > This is how you present to others in onlline — your username, alias, how you portray on onlline communities and websites.

- Guru
  - 
    "Many people think that if they don’t have any social media or online accounts set up, then they don’t have an online identity. This is not the case. If you use the web, you have an online identity." 
    
    I think at first like that — that having no social media makes you no identity at all in internet.

- Your Online Identity
  - 
    It’s your first day on the job, and it’s time to choose a username for your online identity. Which of the following options would you choose?

    This is your first chance to gain some valuable defender points at eLearning company @Apollo, so take your time and think carefully before making your choices.
    - jdoe
    - j.doe12
    - jdoe.IT
    - jdoe1990
    - jane.doe

    > first try
    > My answer: I choose `jdoe` and `j.doe12` because in all list these two are least info that I expose by just using user name. This way is protecting my personal data at my digital world
    >Result: Correct

- Your Data
  - 
    Personal data describes any information about you, including your name, social security number, driver’s license number, date and place of birth, your mother’s maiden name, and even pictures or messages that you exchange with family and friends.

    Cybercriminals can use this sensitive information to identify and impersonate you, infringing on your privacy and potentially causing serious damage to your reputation.

    how hackers can get their hands on your personal data.
    - **Medical records**
    > Every time you visit the doctor, personal information physical and mental health and wellbeing is added to your electronic health records (EHRs). Any fitness trackers collect large amounts of clinical data such as your heart rate, blood pressure and blood sugar levels, which is transferred, stored and displayed via the cloud. Therefore, you should consider this data to be part of your medical records.
    - **Education Records**
    >  Your contact information, attendance records, disciplinary reports, health and immunization records as well as any special education records including individualized education programs (IEPs).
    - **Employment and financial records**
    > Employment data can be valuable to hackers if they can gather information on your past employment, or even your current performance reviews.Your financial records may include information about your income and expenditure. Your tax records may include paychecks, credit card statements, your credit rating and your bank account details. All of this data, if not safeguarded properly, can compromise your privacy and enable cybercriminals to use your information for their own gain.
- Where Is Your Data?
  - 
  