# Methods of Infiltration
---
## Content
- 2.2.1 Social Engineering
- 2.2.2 Denial of Service
- 2.2.3 Distributed Dos
- 2.2.4 Botnet
- 2.2.5 On Path Attacks
- 2.2.6 SEO Poisoning
- 2.2.7 WI-Fi Password Cracking
- 2.2.8 Password Attacks
- 2.2.9 Cracking Times
- 2.2.10 Advanced Persistent Threats
- 2.2.11 It's Over to You...

## My Understanding
### Social Engineering
> "Social Engineering" is one of the Attacker best strategy for me because it uses manipulation to reveal/get some data that attackers want.
  "Social engineers often rely on people’s willingness to be helpful, but they also prey on their weaknesses."
- Pretexting - They use psychological manipulation, often backed by details gathered from public social media profiles, to sound completely true
- Tailgating - They quickly follow a authorize person in secure physical location
- Something for something (quid pro quo) - They Trade something for your data. they give you something free exchange for your data.
### Denial of Service (DoS)
> This attack is very simple it even can use by unskilled attacker. This can prevent real service user to use the service properly.
- Overwhelming quality of traffic - Sending a massive data at the same time at rate that service server can't handle it anymore and eventualy slowdown or crash.
- Maliciously formatted packets - Attacker sends maliciously packets that service or application can't handle. this could slow down the service or even crash.
### Distributed Dos
> I never knew that there is a term "Zombie" in cyberworld too, also known as a "botnet", this is a infected computers that can infect more computer host. if the hacker gathered enough "zombies" they can instruct them to flood a service.
- Botnet - A bot computer is typically infected by visiting an unsafe website or opening an infected email attachment or infected media file. It is a group of bot that can controled by attacker. These bots can be activated to distribute malware, launch DDoS attacks, distribute spam email, or execute brute-force password attacks.
### On Path Attacks
> This attack use to intercept and modify the communications, such as a web browser and a web server. This attack is also referred to as a **man-in-the-middle** or **man-in-the-mobile attack**.
- man-in-the-middle (MitM)- This can be happened by the controled device by attacker without user knowledge. At this level, 
