# Methods of Infiltration
---

## Contents
- 2.2.1 Social Engineering
- 2.2.2 Denial of Service
- 2.2.3 Distributed Dos
- 2.2.4 Botnet
- 2.2.5 On Path Attacks
- 2.2.6 SEO Poisoning
- 2.2.7 WI-Fi Password Cracking
- 2.2.8 Password Attacks
- 2.2.9 Cracking Times
- 2.2.10 Advanced Persistent Threats
- 2.2.11 It's Over to You...
---

## My Understanding
### Social Engineering
> "Social Engineering" is one of the Attacker best strategy for me because it uses manipulation to reveal/get some data that attackers want.
  "Social engineers often rely on people’s willingness to be helpful, but they also prey on their weaknesses."
- Pretexting - They use psychological manipulation, often backed by details gathered from public social media profiles, to sound completely true
- Tailgating - They quickly follow a authorize person in secure physical location
- Something for something (quid pro quo) - They Trade something for your data. they give you something free exchange for your data.
### Denial of Service (DoS)
> This attack is very simple it even can use by unskilled attacker. This can prevent real service user to use the service properly.
- Overwhelming quality of traffic - Sending a massive data at the same time at rate that service server can't handle it anymore and eventualy slowdown or crash.
- Maliciously formatted packets - Attacker sends maliciously packets that service or application can't handle. this could slow down the service or even crash.
### Distributed Dos
> I never knew that there is a term "Zombie" in cyberworld too, also known as a "botnet", this is a infected computers that can infect more computer host. if the hacker gathered enough "zombies" they can instruct them to flood a service.
- Botnet - A bot computer is typically infected by visiting an unsafe website or opening an infected email attachment or infected media file. It is a group of bot that can controled by attacker. These bots can be activated to distribute malware, launch DDoS attacks, distribute spam email, or execute brute-force password attacks.
### On Path Attacks
> This attack use to intercept and modify the communications, such as a web browser and a web server. This attack is also referred to as a **man-in-the-middle** or **man-in-the-mobile attack**.
- Man in the Middle (MitM) - This can be happened if the controled device by an attacker without user knowledge. At this level, attacker can get information before it sents to intended location.
- Man in the Mobile (MitMO) - this attack is used to take control over the user's mobile. Inffected Mobile's, attacker has ability to capture SMS and Verification code.
### SEO Poisoning
- (search engine optimization poisoning) faking or treaking the search engine to show you of an attaker fake website over top of real website you intended to go. This use to higher the rank of malicious website in search result.
### Wi-Fi Password Cracking
- I realize some easy password can cracked over less than a sec by a computer, depends how easy it is. Since then i never use easy password instead i used Capital case, numbers and symbols over my password and not use the same password on same account.
### Password Attacks
- **Password Spraying** - It uses easy or common used password like password123 to spam or "spray" at many accounts therefore, the account will not locked by too many attemps. This technique allows the attacker to remain undetected as they avoid frequent account lockouts.
- **Dictionary attacks** - A hacker will tries every word in a dictionary or a list of commonly used words as a password.
- **Brute Force Attacks** - (My favorite one) - The simplest and most commonly used way of gaining access to a password-protected site, brute-force attacks see an attacker using all possible combinations of letters, numbers and symbols in the password space until they get it right. For me to reduce the risk for this one is limiting the password input attemps of account.
- **Rainbow Attacks** - Unlike a brute-force attack that has to calculate each hash, a rainbow attack compares the hash of a password with those stored in the rainbow table. When an attacker finds a match, they identify the password used to create the hash.
- **Traffic interception** - If you store a password in clear, readable text, anyone who has access to your account or device, whether authorized or unauthorized, can read it.
### Advanced Persistent Threats
- Attackers also achieve infiltration through advanced persistent threats (APTs). They Don't just steal data and run, instead they are like living in system and spying, stealing data for long time. They also plant malware to maintain that access so even if one entry point gets discovered and closed, they might still have other backdoors keeping them inside the system.


