# 2.2. Network Components
---

### Content
- [2.2.1 Video - Network Infrastructure Symbols](#221-video---network-infrastructure-symbols)
- [2.2.2 Network Infrastructure](#222-network-infrastructure)
- [2.2.3 End Devices](#223-end-devices)
- [2.2.4 Check Your Understanding - Network Components](#224-check-your-understanding---network-components)

## Notes
### 2.2.1 Video - Network Infrastructure Symbols
In this vid they shows various types of networking equipment. 

#### **Intermediate devices:**
- Rounter
- Wireless router
- Switch
- Wireless Access Point
- Firewall


#### **End devices:**
- Laptop
- Smart Phone
- Computer
- Tablet
- Printer  

#### **Network Media**
- LAN media
- WAN media
- Wireless media

### 2.2.2 Network Infrastructure
The network infrastructure contains three categories of hardware components.

- End devices
- Intermediate devices
- Network media

Devices and media are the physical elements, or hardware, of the network. Hardware is often the visible components of the network platform such as a laptop, PC, switch, router, wireless access point, or the cabling used to connect the devices. Occasionally, some components may not be so visible. In the case of wireless media, messages are transmitted through the air using invisible radio frequencies or infrared waves.

### 2.2.3 End Devices
The network devices that people are most familiar with are called end devices, or hosts. These devices form the interface between users and the underlying communication network.

Some examples of end devices are as follows:

Computers (workstations, laptops, file servers, web servers)
Network printers
Telephones and teleconferencing equipment
Security cameras
Mobile devices (such as smart phones, tablets, PDAs, and wireless debit/credit card readers and barcode scanners)

An end device (or host) is either the source or destination of a message transmitted over the network. In order to uniquely identify hosts, addresses are used. When a host initiates communication, it uses the address of the destination host to specify where the message should be sent.

### 2.2.4 Check Your Understanding - Network Components
#### Question 1
Marjani lives on a farm several kilometers outside of Msolwa, Tanzania. Which of the following end devices is she most likely to use to connect to the internet? (Choose two.)


- [ ] wireless router
- [ ] network printer
- [ ] telepresence endpoint
- [x] wireless tablet
- [x] smartphone
> Result: Correct
#### Question 2
Eilert recently got a job with a computer support services company in his hometown of Falun, Sweden. A customer has asked for someone to come connect their home network to the internet. They only have a cable modem. Which of the following intermediary devices would Eilert most likely take with him to the job?


- [ ] multilayer switch
- [ ] firewall appliance
- [ ] LAN switch
- [ ] desktop computer
- [x] wireless router
> Result: Correct

#### Question 3
Rosalía works as a community health worker in Rio Claro, Brazil. Most of her time is spent making home visits to provide primary care to people in her community. However, she requires internet access to maintain her patient records and provide videoconferencing with a doctor, when needed. What end device and media type does Rosalía most likely use? (Choose two.)

- [ ] router
- [x] wireless media
- [x] tablet
- [ ] WAN media
- [ ] LAN media 
- [ ] desktop computer
> Result: Correct
