# 3.1. Wireless Networks
---

## Contents
- 3.1.3 Other Wireless Networks
- 3.1.4 Check Your Understanding - Wireless Networks

## Notes
### 3.1.3 Other Wireless Networks
In addition to the GSM and 4G/5G transmitters and receivers, smartphones make connections in a variety of ways.

Different ways that smartphones make connections.
- **GPS** - The GPS uses satellites to transmit signals that cover the globe. The smartphone can receive these signals and calculate the phone’s location to an accuracy of within 10 meters.
- **WI-Fi** - Wi-Fi transmitters and receivers located within the smartphone enable the phone to connect to local networks and the internet. In order to receive and send data on a Wi-Fi network, the phone needs to be within the range of the signal from a wireless network access point. Wi-Fi networks are usually privately owned but often provide guest or public access hotspots. A hotspot is an area where Wi-Fi signals are available. Wi-Fi network connections on the phone are similar to the network connections on a laptop computer.
- **Bluetooth** - Bluetooth is a low-power, shorter range wireless technology that is intended to replace wired connectivity for accessories such as speakers, headphones, and microphones. Bluetooth can also be used to connect a smartwatch to a smartphone. Because Bluetooth technology can be used to transmit both data and voice, it can be used to create small local networks. Bluetooth is wireless technology that allows devices to communicate over short distances. Multiple devices can be connected at the same time with Bluetooth.
- **NFC** - Near Field Communication (NFC) is a wireless communication technology that enables data to be exchanged by devices that are in very close proximity to each other, usually less than a few centimeters. For example, NFC can be used to connect a smartphone and a payment system. NFC uses electromagnetic fields to transmit data.

### 3.1.4 Check Your Understanding - Wireless Networks
#### Question 1
Which of the following is a low-power, shorter range wireless technology that is intended to replace wired connectivity for accessories such as speakers or a mouse?
- [x] Bluetooth
- [ ] Wi-Fi
- [ ] NFC
- [ ] GPS

> Result: Correct

#### Question 2
Which of the following is a wireless communication technology that enables a smartphone to communicate with a payment system within a few centimeters away?

- [x] NFC
- [ ] Wi-Fi
- [ ] GPS
- [ ] Bluetooth

> Result: Correct