# 3.2 Mobile Device Connectivity
---

## Contents
- 3.2.1 Mobile Devices and Wi-Fi
- 3.2.2 Wi-Fi Settings
- 3.2.3 Configure Mobile Wi-Fi Connectivity
- 3.2.4 Configure Cellular Data Settings
- 3.2.5 Video - Bluetooth Configuration on a Windows Laptop
- 3.2.6 Simple Connectivity with Bluetooth
- 3.2.7 Bluetooth Pairing
- 3.2.8 Explore Your Network Settings on Your Mobile Device

## Notes
### 3.2.1 Mobile Devices and Wi-Fi
Mobile devices give us the freedom to work, learn, play, and communicate wherever we want. People using mobile devices do not need to be tied to a physical location to send and receive voice, video, and data communications. In addition, wireless facilities, such as internet cafes, are available in many countries. College campuses use wireless networks to allow students to sign up for classes, watch lectures, and submit assignments in areas where physical connections to the network are unavailable. With mobile devices becoming more powerful, many tasks that needed to be performed on large computers connected to physical networks can now be completed using mobile devices on wireless networks.

Almost all mobile devices are capable of connecting to Wi-Fi networks. It is advisable to connect to Wi-Fi networks when possible because data used over Wi-Fi does not count against the cellular data plan. Also, because Wi-Fi radios use less power than cellular radios, connecting to Wi-Fi networks conserves battery power. Like other Wi-Fi-enabled devices, it is important to use security when connecting to Wi-Fi networks. These precautions should be taken to protect Wi-Fi communications on mobile devices:

- Never send login or password information using unencrypted text (plaintext).
- Use a VPN connection when possible if you are sending sensitive data.
- Enable security on home networks.
- Use WPA2 or higher encryption for security.

### 3.2.2 Wi-Fi Settings
Two of the most popular operating systems for mobile devices are Android and Apple iOS. Each operating system has settings that enable you to configure your device to connect to wireless networks.

To connect an Android or iOS device when it is within the coverage range of a Wi-Fi network, turn on Wi-Fi and the device then searches for all available Wi-Fi networks and displays them in a list. Touch a Wi-Fi network in the list to connect. Enter a password if needed.

When a mobile device is out of the range of the Wi-Fi network, it attempts to connect to another Wi-Fi network in range. If no Wi-Fi networks are in range, the mobile device connects to the cellular data network. When Wi-Fi is on, it will automatically connect to any Wi-Fi network that it has connected to previously. If the network is new, the mobile device either displays a list of available networks that can be used or asks if it should connect to it.

### 3.2.3 Configure Mobile Wi-Fi Connectivity
If your mobile device does not prompt to connect to a Wi-Fi network, the network SSID broadcast may be turned off, or the device may not be set to connect automatically. Manually configure the Wi-Fi settings on the mobile device. Remember that SSIDs and passphrases must be typed exactly as entered on the wireless router setup or the device will not connect properly, as shown in the figure. SSID is the name assigned to a wireless network. Passphrase is what we normally use as the “wireless password”.

To connect to a Wi-Fi network manually on an Android device, follow these steps:
**Step 1.** Select **Settings > Add network.**
**Step 2.** Enter the network SSID.
**Step 3.** Touch **Security** and select a security type.
**Step 4.** Touch **Password** and enter the password.
**Step 5.** Touch **Save.**

To connect to a Wi-Fi network manually on an iOS device, follow these steps:
Step 1. Select Settings > Wi-Fi > Other.
Step 2. Enter the network SSID.
Step 3. Touch Security and select a security type.
Step 4. Touch Other Network.
Step 5. Touch Password and enter the password.
Step 6. Touch Join.

Operating systems for mobile devices are updated frequently and may be customized by the device manufacturer. The commands listed above may not be exactly the same on your device. There are online manuals for every type of device which are usually accessible from the website of the manufacturer.

### 3.2.4 Configure Cellular Data Settings
Cellular data plans are offered by most cell phone carriers, but the bandwidth limitations and charges for usage vary widely by carrier, and by plan within carriers. As a result, many mobile device users only use their cellular data plans when Wi-Fi service is not available.

Example of how to turn cellular data on and off on Android and iOS devices.

- **Android Cellular Data** - To turn on or off cellular data on an Android device, as shown in the figure, use the following path:

  **Settings >** touch **More** under **Wireless and Networks >** touch **Mobile Networks >** touch **Data enabled**

- **iOS Cellular Data** - To turn on or off cellular data on an iOS device, as shown in the figure, use the following path:    
  
  Settings > Cellular Data > turn cellular data on or off

Mobile devices are preprogrammed to use a Wi-Fi network for internet if one is available and the device can connect to the access point and receive an IP address. If no Wi-Fi network is available, the device uses the cellular data capability if it is configured. Most of the time, transitions from one network to another are not obvious to the user. For example, as a mobile device moves from an area of 4G coverage to 3G coverage, the 4G radio shuts off and turns on the 3G radio. Connections are not lost during this transition.

### 3.2.5 Video - Bluetooth Configuration on a Windows Laptop
There is a guy teaching how to configure the bluetooth in windows.

- **Windows** - There are three common ways to access Bluetooth. It depends on your Windows operating system, but in Windows 10, here is how:
  - **Action Center** -  You can see this at the bottom right corner at your desktop screen. You can pressed this and you can locate a **bluetooth**—click to turn on, and click again to turn off. You can right click on it and click **go to setting**, going to take you to **bluetooth settings**.
  - **Start button** - Start button is located to bottom-left of your desktop screen—it's the one with the Windows logo. Click this, select **"Control Panel"** > **"Add a device"** (inside the "Hardware and Sounds").
  - **Search Bar** - this is located inside the Start button—looks magnifying glass. Press this, type "settings" press enter. Inside this settings go to the **Devices** and in devices you will see the Bluetooth settings.

After the guy showed how to configure bluetooth in windows 10, he start showing a bluetooth headset and teach how to set it up to pairing mode. 

***Pairing mode** will enable bluetooth devices to connect to computers.*

After setting up to pairing mode, you can now go to the **bluetooth setting** > **add device** > *(Name of bluetooth device)*.

If you turn on your bluetooth, and if the bluetooth device is turned on nearby that already paired before at this computer, it should be able to connect back to it automatically.

### 3.2.6 Simple Connectivity with Bluetooth
Mobile devices connect using many different methods. Cellular and Wi-Fi can be difficult to configure, and require extra equipment such as towers and access points. Cable connections are not always practical when connecting headsets or speakers. Bluetooth technology provides a simple way for mobile devices to connect to each other and to wireless accessories. Bluetooth is wireless, automatic, and uses very little power, which helps conserve battery life. Up to eight Bluetooth devices can be connected together at any one time.

These are some examples of how devices use Bluetooth:

- **Hands-free headset** - A small earpiece with a microphone can be used for making and receiving calls.
- **Keyboard or mouse** - A keyboard or mouse can be connected to a mobile device to make input easier.
- **Stereo control** - A mobile device can connect to a home or car stereo to play music.
- **Car speakerphone** - A device that contains a speaker and a microphone can be used for making and receiving calls.
- **Tethering** - A mobile device can connect to another mobile device or computer to share a network connection. Tethering can also be performed with a Wi-Fi connection or a cable connection such as USB.
- **Mobile speaker** - Portable speakers can connect to mobile devices to provide high-quality audio without a stereo system.

### 3.2.7 Bluetooth Pairing
Bluetooth pairing occurs when two Bluetooth devices establish a connection to share resources. In order for the devices to pair, the Bluetooth radios are turned on, and one device begins searching for other devices. Other devices must be set to discoverable mode, also called visible, so that they can be detected. When a Bluetooth device is in discoverable mode, it transmits the following information when another Bluetooth device requests it:

- Names
- Bluetooth class
- Services that the device can use
- Technical information, such as the features or the Bluetooth specification that it supports
  
During the pairing process, a personal identification number (PIN) may be requested to authenticate the pairing process. The PIN is often a number, but can also be a numeric code or passkey. The PIN is stored using pairing services, so it does not have to be entered the next time the device tries to connect. This is convenient when using a headset with a smart phone, because they are paired automatically when the headset is turned on and within range.

To pair a Bluetooth device with an Android device, follow these steps:

- **Step 1.** Follow the instructions for your device to place it in discoverable mode.
- **Step 2.** Check the instructions for your device to find the connection PIN.
- **Step 3.** Select Settings > Wireless and networks.
- **Step 4.** Touch Bluetooth to turn it on.
- **Step 5.** Touch the Bluetooth tab.
- **Step 6.** Touch Scan for devices.
- **Step 7.** Touch the discovered device to select it.
- **Step 8.** Type the PIN.
- **Step 9.** Touch the device name again to connect to it.

To pair a Bluetooth device with an iOS device, follow these steps:

- **Step 1.** Follow the instructions for your device to place it in discoverable mode.
- Step 2. Check the instructions for your device to find the connection PIN.
- **Step 3.** Select Settings > Bluetooth.
- **Step 4.** Touch Bluetooth to turn it on.
- **Step 5.** Touch the discovered device to select it.
- **Step 6.** Type the PIN.

Remember that mobile device operating systems are updated frequently. Always refer to the documentation of the manufacturer for your specific model device for the latest command reference.

### 3.2.8 Explore Your Network Settings on Your Mobile Device
"Now that you have reviewed the steps to configure and verify your Wi-Fi, cellular, and Bluetooth access, explore these settings on your own phone. If you have access to a Bluetooth device, like headphones or a speaker, connect it to your phone. Notice that you can be using all three of these wireless services simultaneously, each serving a different role. You could be listening to music (Bluetooth), researching on the internet (Wi-Fi), and receiving text messages (cellular)."