# 1.1 Network types  
---

## Contents
- [1.1.1 Video — Welcome to the World of Networking](#111-video---welcome-to-the-world-of-networking)
- [1.1.2 Everything is Onlline](#112-everything-is-online)
- [1.1.3 Who Owns "The Internet"?](#113-who-owns-the-internet)
- [1.1.4 Local Networks](#114-local-networks)
- [1.1.5 Mobile Devices](#115-mobile-devices)
- [1.1.6 Connected Home Devices](#116-connected-home-devices)
- [1.1.7 Other Connected Home Devices](#117-other-conected-devices)
- [1.1.8 Check Your Understanding — Network Types](#118-check-your-understanding---network-types)

## My Understanding

### 1.1.1 Video - Welcome to the World of Networking

  There is a guy named Rick Graziani. He is teaching computer network, working with Cisco Network Acdemy Courses. Everything that we read or we get in this free courses is made by dedicated network team experts to help us learn networking. He said networking is like jigsaw puzzle to him, these defferent protocols, different process, at first they just might not make sense. The more you learn, you gonna see they all gonna fit in together and all these network and internet will become clearer. He want us to feel that we are not alone at this journey. 

### 1.1.2 Everything is Online

  We use network to interact with eachother, it so important that we use it in our everyday life, actually it is part of our life. Share picture, message, and learn. This feels like connected with eachother. Normally when people says internet they not actually meant the physical connection in real world. Instead, they think about formless collection of connections.

### 1.1.3 Who Owns "the Internet"

  The internet is not owned by any individual or group. The internet is a worldwide collection of interconnected networks cooperating with each other to exchange information using common standards. Through telephone wires, fiber-optic cables, wireless transmissions, and satellite links, internet users can exchange information in a variety of forms.

  Everything that you access online is located somewhere on the global internet — Onlline Games, Social Media, Online courses and many more — all of this are connected to local network to send and recive information.

### 1.1.4 Local Networks
 
  Local networks come in all sizes. They can range from simple networks consisting of two computers, to networks connecting hundreds of thousands of devices. Networks installed in small offices, or homes and home offices, are referred to as small office/home office (SOHO) networks. SOHO networks let you share resources such as printers, documents, pictures, and music, between a few local users.

  In business, large networks can be used to advertise and sell products, order supplies, and communicate with customers. Communication over a network is usually more efficient and less expensive than traditional forms of communication, such as regular mail or long distance phone calls. Networks allow for rapid communication such as email and instant messaging, and provide consolidation and access to information stored on network servers.

  Business and SOHO networks usually provide a shared connection to the internet. The internet is considered a "network of networks" because it is literally made up of thousands of local networks that are connected to each other.  
  - **Small Home Networks**
  Small home networks connect a few computers to each other and to the internet.
  - **Small Office and Home Office Networks**   
  The SOHO network allows computers in a home office or a remote office to connect to a corporate network, or access centralized, shared resources.
  - **Medium to Large Networks**
  Used by corporations and schools, can have many locations with hundreds or thousands of interconnected hosts.
  - **World Wide Networks**
  The internet is a network of networks that connects hundreds of millions of computers world-wide.

### 1.1.5 Mobile Devices

  There are devices all around that you may interact with on a daily basis that are also connected to the internet. These include mobile devices, home devices, and a variety of other connected devices.
  - **Smartphone**
  Smartphones are able to connect to the internet from almost anywhere. Smartphones combine the functions of many different products together, such as a telephone, camera, GPS receiver, media player, and touch screen computer
  - **Tablet**
  Tablets, like smartphones, also have the functionality of multiple devices. With the additional screen size, they are ideal for watching videos and reading magazines or books. With on-screen keyboards, users are able to do many of the things they used to do on their laptop computer, such as composing emails or browsing the web.
  - **Smartwatch**
  A smartwatch can connect to a smartphone to provide the user with alerts and messages. Additional functions, such as heart rate monitoring and counting steps, like a pedometer, can help people who are wearing the device to track their health.
  - **Smart Glasses**
  A wearable computer in the form of glasses, such as Google Glass, contains a tiny screen that displays information to the wearer in a similar fashion to the Head-Up Display (HUD) of a fighter pilot. A small touch pad on the side allows the user to navigate menus while still being able to see through the smart glasses.

### 1.1.6 Connected Home Devices
 
  Many of the things in your home can also be connected to the internet so that they can be monitored and configured remotely.
  - **Security System**
  Many of the items in a home, such as security systems, lighting, and climate controls, can be monitored and configured remotely using a mobile device.
  - **Appliances**
  Household appliances such as refrigerators, ovens, and dishwashers can be connected to the internet. This allows the homeowner to power them on or off, monitor the status of the appliance, and also be alerted to preset conditions, such as when the temperature in the refrigerator rises above an acceptable level.
  - **Smart TV**
  A smart TV can be connected to the internet to access content without the need for TV service provider equipment. Also, a smart TV can allow a user to browse the web, compose email, or display video, audio, or photos stored on a computer.
  - **Gaming Console**
  Gaming consoles can connect to the internet to download games and play with friends online.

### 1.1.7 Other Conected Devices
 
  - **Smart Cars**
  Some of the modern cars are can connect to the internet to access some global information like maps, audio and video content. They can even send a text message or email if there is an attempted theft in case of an accident. These cars can also connect to smartphones and tablets to display information about the different engine systems, provide maintenance alerts, or display the status of the security system.
  - **RFID Tags**
  Radio frequency identification (RFIDs) tags can be placed in or on objects to track them or monitor sensors for many conditions.
  - **Sensors and Actuators**
  Connected sensors can provide temperature, humidity, wind speed, barometric pressure, and soil moisture data. Actuators can then be automatically triggered based on current conditions. The monitoring station can then send a signal to an actuator to begin watering. The sensor will continue to send soil moisture data allowing the monitoring station to determine when to deactivate the actuator.
  - **Medical Devices**
  Medical devices such as pacemakers, insulin pumps, and hospital monitors provide users or medical professionals with direct feedback or alerts when vital signs are at specific levels.

### 1.1.8 Check Your Understanding - Network Types

  - **Question 1**  
  What type of network allows computers in a home office or a remote office to connect to a corporate network?  
    - medium to large network  
    - smart home network  
    - small office home office network  
    - world wide network  

  > First try  
  > My answer: small office home office network  
  > Result: Correct

  - **Question 2**
  What can be placed in or on a package so that it can be tracked?  
    - RFID tag  
    - sensor  
    - actuator  
    - network interface card  

  > First try  
  > My answer: RFID tag  
  > Result: Correct  