# 1.2 Data Transmission
---

## Contents
- [1.2.1 Video — Types of Personal Data](#121-video--types-of-personal-data)
- [1.2.2 The Bit](#122-the-bit)
- [1.2.3 Common Methods of Data Transmission](#123-common-methods-of-data-transmission)
- [1.2.4 Check Your Understanding — Data Transmission](#124-check-your-understanding---data-transmission)

## Notes
### 1.2.1 Video — Types of Personal Data
#### Video
We hear about data all the time — data that's transmited, entered, stoored. and aboout big data. But what exactly is data? Data in it's raw form is the information that you input.everytime you hit send, share or upload, you are sending data that you created somewhere out onto the network.

There are different types of data:
- **Volunteer Data:** Data that you offer yourself. You realize the data is being collected about you and you are agreeing to share it or to store it somewhere into network
- **Inferred Data:** Data that you may not realize is actually being collected about you. This data is you generate by your activities. For example: Your creditcard — every place that you use your credit card keeps a record, and therefore, if you move about and go to different stores, things are being collected about you, like your 
  - Preference
  - Place you typically eat or shop
  - Information to Helps to pinpoint your location
So this data exists, even though we didn't intentionally volunteer it.
- **Observed Data:** For example your phone keeps track of your location, that information is being stored and is being transmitted to your carrier.

So we have to becareful sometimes when we click share or upload button, so that we know where things are going

### 1.2.2 The Bit
Computers only work with binary digits, zeros and ones. All of our data is stored and transmitted as a series of bits. Each bit can only have one of two possible values, 0 or 1. The term bit is an abbreviation of “binary digit” and represents the smallest piece of data.  

A bit is stored and transmitted as one of two possible discrete states. This can include two directions of magnetization, two distinct voltage or current levels, two distinct levels of light intensity, or any other physical system of two discrete states. For example, a light switch can be either On or Off; in binary representation, these states would correspond to 1 and 0 respectively.

Every input device (mouse, keyboard, voice-activated receiver) will translate human interaction into binary code for the CPU to process and store. Every output device (printer, speakers, monitors, etc.) will take binary data and translate it back into human recognizable form. Within the computer itself, all data is processed and stored as binary.

Computers use binary codes to represent and interpret letters, numbers and special characters with bits. A commonly used code is the American Standard Code for Information Interchange (ASCII). With ASCII, each character is represented by eight bits. For example:
- **Capital letter:** 01000001
- **Number:** 9 = 00111001
- **Special character:** # = 00100011

Each group of eight bits, such as the representations of letters and numbers, is known as a byte.

Codes can be used to represent almost any type of information digitally including computer data, graphics, photos, voice, video, and music.

To really test this and get the visual idea, they gave me a character and ASCII bit translation result function, where I can put combination of character upto 5 letter and once I click the "Show Me" button, the ASCII bit translation result will popup.
> **I input:** Daren  
> **Result:** 01000100 01100001 01110010 01100101 01101110

### 1.2.3 Common Methods of Data Transmission
After the data is transformed into a series of bits, it must be converted into signals that can be sent across the network media to its destination. Media refers to the physical medium on which the signals are transmitted. Examples of media are copper wire, fiber-optic cable, and electromagnetic waves through the air. A signal consists of electrical or optical patterns that are transmitted from one connected device to another.

There are three common methods of signal transmission used in networks:

- **Electrical signals** - Transmission is achieved by representing data as electrical pulses on copper wire.
- **Optical signals** - Transmission is achieved by converting the electrical signals into light pulses.
- **Wireless signals** - Transmission is achieved by using infrared, microwave, or radio waves through the air.

In most homes and small businesses, network signals are transmitted across copper wires (cables) or Wi-Fi enabled wireless connections. Larger networks employ fiber-optic cables in order to reliably carry signals for longer distances.

### 1.2.4 Check Your Understanding - Data Transmission
#### Question 1
A basic unit of information that represents one of two discrete states is known as a:

- [ ] octet
- [ ] electrical signal
- [x] bit
- [ ] byte
> Result: Correct

#### Question 2
When using your credit card to make purchases at several places, the credit card company can use this information to learn about your location and your preferences. This type of personal data is known as:
- [ ] volunteered data
- [ ] secret data
- [ ] observed data
- [x] inferred data
> Result: Correct

#### Question 3
Which of the following methods of signal transmission uses frequencies or pulses of light?
- [x] optical signals
- [ ] wireless signals
- [ ] electrical signals
> Result: Correct