# 1.3 Bandwidth and Throughput
---

## Contents
- 1.3.1 Bandwidth
- 1.3.2 Throughput
- 1.3.3 Video - Throughput
- 1.3.4 Check Your Understanding - Bandwidth and Throughput

## Notes
### 1.3.1 Bandwidth
Streaming a movie or playing a multiplayer game requires reliable, fast connections. To support these “high bandwidth” applications, networks have to be capable of transmitting and receiving bits at a very high rate.

Different physical media support the transfer of bits at different speeds. The rate of data transfer is usually discussed in terms of bandwidth and throughput.

Bandwidth is the capacity of a medium to carry data in one go. Digital bandwidth measures the amount of data that can flow from one place to another in a given amount of time. Bandwidth is typically measured in the number of bits that (theoretically) can be sent across the media in a second. Common bandwidth measurements are as follows: 

- Thousands of bits per second (Kbps)
- Millions of bits per second (Mbps)
- Billions of bits per second (Gbps)

The table shows the commonly used units of measure for bandwidth.

| Unit of Bandwidth | Abbreviation | <center> Equivalence <center> |
|---|---|---|
| Bits per seconds | Bps | 1 bps = fundamental unit of bandwidth|
| Kilobits per seconds | Kbps | 1 Kbps = 1,000 bps = 10|
| Megabits per seconds | Mbps | 1 Mbps = 1,000,000 bps = 10|
| Gigabits per seconds | Gbps | 1 Gbps = 1,000,000,000 bps = 10|
| Terabits per seconds | Tbps | 1 Tbps = 1,000,000,000,000 bps = 10|

### 1.3.2 Throughput
Like bandwidth, throughput is the measure of the transfer of bits across the media over a given period of time. However, due to a number of factors, throughput does not usually match the specified bandwidth. Many factors influence throughput including:

The amount of data being sent and received over the connection
The types of data being transmitted
The latency created by the number of network devices encountered between source and destination
- The amount of data being sent and received over the connection
- The types of data being transmitted
- The latency created by the number of network devices encountered between source and destination

Latency refers to the amount of time, including delays, for data to travel from one given point to another.

### 1.3.3 Video - Throughput
We use site speedtest.net to reveal our actualy throughput.
First it will show the download speed which is the number of bits per second, next after the download speed shows up the upload speed will show also. Most of the time we will get more download speed than upload speed. This kind of site help to show us our actual internet performance, not just over your network, but also through your internet service provider (ISP).

### 1.3.4 Check Your Understanding - Bandwidth and Throughput
#### Question 1
The capacity of the medium to carry data is known as:

- [x] bandwidth
- [ ] speed
- [ ] throughput
- [ ] data rate
> Result: Correct

#### Question 2
Which of the following measurements includes any latency encountered during data transmissions?

- [ ] speed
- [x] throughput
- [ ] bandwidth
- [ ] data rate
> Result: Correct

#### Question 3
Which of the following measurements includes any latency encountered during data transmissions?

- [ ] bits per millisecond
- [x] bits per second
- [ ] total number of bytes
- [ ] bytes per second
- [ ] total number of bits
- [ ] bytes per millisecond
> Result: Correct
