# 1.1 The World of Cybersecurity

>📚 Source: Cisco NetAcad — Introduction to Cybersecurity  
>📍 Module: 1 — Introduction to Cybersecurity  
>✅ Status: Done   Difficulty: Beginner  

## Content:

- 1.1.1 What is Cybersecurity
- 1.1.2 Protecting Your Personal Data
- 1.1.3 Your Online identity
- 1.1.4 Your Data
- 1.1.5 Where is Your Data?
- 1.1.6 What's More...
- 1.1.7 Smart Devices
- 1.1.8 What Do Hackers Want?
- 1.1.9 Identity Theft
- 1.1.10 Who Else Wants My Data?

## My Understanding (My own word):
- The first security layer will always start first at the owner level because the data depends how will share it.
- In organization, they are not only protecting there contumer and data, they are protecting reputations too.
- In the world of digital and network so many shared information. i think the most crucial part is the goverment level because economy, the safety and citizen are depends on them.
- the personal data is have 2 category, The offline and the Onlline. the offline is how you present in real life basis like your persona at home, work or school. The onlline is not just your name. it's how you present in digital world.
- I thought at first if you don't have social media means you dont have onlline identity. But this is not the case. Just Websearching, Browsing or using internet? then you have definetly have a onlline identity.
- like i said choosing what you share tell who you are onlline. This is the same case at choosing a right username too, using your fullname as username tell exactly who you are in offline world. So choose your username carefully that not will exposed yourself too much.
- Most of the criminals will use your social identity (e.g. Medical records, Education records and Employment and financial records) to gain money. But I think this will be not always the case. if you have rival, they can use your info to impersonate as you and can destroy your reputation.
- Your data is can share like a Tree branch so fast for example: You buy a new pair of shoes on an online shopping app. The app has your home address and phone number. To actually get the shoes to your house, the app updates your order status and shares your name, address, and phone number with a third-party courier/delivery company (like DHL, FedEx, or J&T).
- Not all wants my data is cybercriminals they can be just ISP, Advertisers, Search Engine and media platforms, Website you visit.
- Always remember becareful what u shared onlline because cybercreminals can ruin your life.

## ❓ Questions / Things to Review
- [x] Common ways how cybercriminals can access my data
- [x] How company protect my data


