# 4.1 Home Network Basics
---

## Contents
- 4.1.1 Video - Typical Home Network Setup
- 4.1.2 Components of a Home Network
- 4.1.3 Typical Home Network Routers
- 4.1.4 Check Your Understanding - Home Network Basics

## Notes

### 4.1.2 Components of a Home Network
In addition to an integrated router, there are many different types of devices that might be connecting to a home network, as shown in the figure. Here are a few examples:

- Desktop computers
- Gaming systems
- Smart TV systems
- Printers
- Scanners
- Security cameras
- Telephones
- Climate control devices

As the new technologies come on the market, more and more household functions will rely on the network to provide connectivity and control.

### 4.1.3 Typical Home Network Routers
Small business and home routers typically have two primary types of ports:
#### Ethernet Ports
These ports connect to the internal switch portion of the router. These ports are usually labeled “Ethernet” or “LAN”, as shown in the figure. All devices connected to the switch ports are on the same local network.

#### Internet Ports
This port is used to connect the device to another network. The internet port connects the router to a different network than the Ethernet ports. This port is often used to connect to the cable or DSL modem in order to access the internet.


In addition to the wired ports, many home routers include a radio antenna and a built-in wireless access point. By default, the wireless devices are on the same local network as the devices that are physically plugged into the LAN switch ports. The internet port is the only port that is on a different network in the default configuration.

### 4.1.4 Check Your Understanding - Home Network Basics
#### Question 1
True or False?  
A home router typically only provides wired access to the network. You have to buy a separate device for wireless access.
- [ ] true
- [x] false
> Result: Correct

#### Question 2
Which of the following is used to connect a wired device to the internal switch of the home router?
- [ ] Wireless port
- [ ] Internet port
- [ ] Power port
- [x] Ethernet port
> Result: Correct