# 4.3 Wireless Standards
---

## Contents
- 4.3.1 Wi-Fi Networks
- 4.3.2 Wireless Settings
- 4.3.3 Check Your Understanding - Wireless Standards

## Notes
### 4.3.1 Wi-Fi Networks
A number of standards have been developed to ensure that wireless devices can communicate. They specify the RF spectrum used, data rates, how the information is transmitted, and more. The main organization responsible for the creation of wireless technical standards is the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE).
The IEEE 802.11 standard governs the WLAN environment. There are amendments to the IEEE 802.11 standard that describe characteristics for different standards of wireless communications. Wireless standards for LANs use the 2.4 GHz and 5 GHz frequency bands. Collectively these technologies are referred to as Wi-Fi.

Another organization, known as the Wi-Fi Alliance, is responsible for testing wireless LAN devices from different manufacturers. The Wi-Fi logo on a device means that this equipment meets standards and should operate with other devices that use the same standard.

Wireless standards are constantly improving the connectivity and speed of Wi-Fi networks. It is important to be aware of new standards as they are introduced because manufacturers of wireless devices will implement these standards quickly in their new products.

### 4.3.2 Wireless Settings
Wireless routers using the 802.11 standards have multiple settings that have to be configured. These settings include the following:

- **Network mode** - Determines the type of technology that must be supported. For example,802.11b,802.11g,802.11n or Mixed Mode.
- **Network Name (SSID)** - Used to identify the WLAN. All devices that wish to participate in the WLAN must have the same SSID. 
- **Standard Channel** - Specifies the channel over which communication will occur. By default, this is set to Auto to allow the access point (AP) to determine the optimum channel to use.
- **SSID Broadcast** - Determines if the SSID will be broadcast to all devices within range. By default, set to Enabled.

**Note:** SSID stands for Service Set Identifier.

#### Network Mode
The 802.11 protocol can provide increased throughput based on the wireless network environment. If all wireless devices connect with the same 802.11 standard, maximum speeds can be obtained for that standard. If the access point is configured to accept only one 802.11 standard, devices that do not use that standard cannot connect to the access point.

A mixed mode wireless network environment can include devices that use any of the existing Wi-Fi standards. This environment provides easy access for older devices that need a wireless connection but do not support the latest standards.

When building a wireless network, it is important that the wireless components connect to the appropriate WLAN. This is done using the SSID.

The SSID is a case-sensitive, alphanumeric string that contains up to 32 characters. It is sent in the header of all frames transmitted over the WLAN. The SSID is used to tell wireless devices, called wireless stations (STAs), which WLAN they belong to and with which other devices they can communicate.

We use the SSID to identify a specific wireless network. It is essentially the name of the network. Wireless routers usually broadcast their configured SSIDs by default. The SSID broadcast allows other devices and wireless clients to automatically discover the name of the wireless network. When the SSID broadcast is disabled, you must manually enter the SSID on wireless devices.

Disabling SSID broadcasting can make it more difficult for legitimate clients to find the wireless network. However, simply turning off the SSID broadcast is not sufficient to prevent unauthorized clients from connecting to the wireless network. All wireless networks should use the strongest available encryption to restrict unauthorized access.

### 4.3.3 Check Your Understanding - Wireless Standards
#### Question 1
Which organization is responsible for testing wireless LAN devices?
- [x] IEEE
- [ ] IETF
- [ ] Wi-Fi Alliance
- [ ] TIA/EIA
> Result: Wrong, Correct answer is Wi-fi Alliance

#### Question 2
What is used to identify a specific wireless network?
- [ ] the IP address of the router
- [ ] the Service Set Identifier (SSID)
- [ ] the network address
- [ ] the network mode
> Result: Correct!


#### Question 3
True or False?

If you have devices on your wireless network that are using a variety of different 802.11 standards, then you should set your network to the highest standard to get the best throughput.
- [ ] true
- [x] false
> Result: Correct!
