# 4.4 Set Up a Home Router
---

## Contents
- 4.4.1 First Time Setup
- 4.4.2 Design Considerations
- 4.4.3 Video - Wireless Router and Client Configuration
- 4.4.4 Packet Tracer - Configure a Wireless Router and Client

## Notes
#### 4.4.1 First Time Setup
Many wireless routers designed for home use have an automatic setup utility that can be used to configure the basic settings on the router. These utilities usually require a PC or laptop to be connected to a wired port on the router. If no device is available that has a wired connection, it may be necessary to configure the wireless client software on the laptop or tablet first. 

To connect to the router using a wired connection, plug an Ethernet patch cable into the network port on the computer. Plug the other end into a LAN port on the router. Do not plug the cable into the port or interface that is labeled “Internet”. The internet port will connect to the DSL or cable modem. Some home routers may have a built-in modem for internet connections. If this is the case, verify that the type of connection is correct for your internet service. A cable modem connection will have a coaxial terminal to accept a BNC-type connector. A DSL connection will have a port for a telephone-type cable, usually an RJ-11 connector.

After confirming that the computer is connected to the network router and the link lights on the NIC indicate a working connection, the computer needs an IP address. Most network routers are set up so that the computer receives an IP address automatically from a local DHCP server automatically configured on the wireless router. If the computer does not have an IP address, check the router documentation and configure the PC or tablet with a unique IP address, subnet mask, default gateway, and DNS information.

### 4.4.2 Design Considerations
Before entering the configuration utility, or manually configuring the router through a web browser, you should consider how your network will be used. You do not want to configure the router and have that configuration limit what you are able to do on the network, nor do you want to leave your network unprotected.

- **What should my network be called** - If SSID broadcasting is on, the SSID name will be seen by all wireless clients within your signal range. Many times the SSID gives away too much information about the network to unknown client devices. It is not a good practice to include the device model or brand name as part of the SSID. Wireless devices have default settings that are easy to find on the internet, as well as known security weaknesses.
- **What types of devices will attach to my network?** - Wireless devices contain radio transmitter/receivers that function within a specific frequency range. If a device only has the necessary radio for 802.11 b/g, it will not connect if the wireless router or access point is configured to only accept 802.11n or 802.11ac standards. If all devices support the same standard, the network will work at its optimum speed. If you have devices that do not support the n or ac standards, then you will have to enable legacy mode. A legacy mode wireless network environment varies between router models but can include a combination of 802.11a, 802.11b, 802.11g, 802.11n, and 802.11ac. This environment provides easy access for legacy devices that need a wireless connection.
- **How do I add new devices?** - The decision regarding who can access your home network should be determined by how you plan to use the network. On some wireless routers, it is possible to set up guest access. This is a special SSID coverage area that allows open access but restricts that access to using the internet only.

Note: Some wireless routers may label legacy mode as mixed mode.

#### 4.4.3 Video - Wireless Router and Client Configuration
They Teach how to use **packet tracer app**, how to **connect the device**, **configure the wireless router**, **onfigure IP addressing and test connectivity**. It shows how to connect many devices like TV, Laptop and PC. It teaches also how to configure and setup a new/fresh router connected to modem.

#### 4.4.4 Packet Tracer - Configure a Wireless Router and Client
In this Packet Tracer activity, you will complete the following objectives.

Part 1: Connect the Devices
Part 2: Configure the Wireless Router
Part 3: Configure IP Addressing and Test Connectivity

> I downloaded the file attached to this module. I open it and have exact template what i saw from video. To complete the object from above, these steps that i went through:
>
> **Part 1: Connect the Devices**
> 
> I use coaxial connection to connect the modem and TV at the cable spliter. After I connect the 2 device into spliter, I turned on the TV to see if I will see the proggram. Since the proggram popups means, we are connected to internet.
>
> I need to connect the 2 PCs(They dont have wireless LAN adapters) using Ethernet cables, to do this I get the "Copper Straight-Through" cable and connect the port 1 of the Cable Modem to "internet" port of the Home Wireless Router then, connect the Office PC using the same connection. Fastethernet0 port from Office PC to GigabitEthernet 1 of Home Wireless Router. I repeat the same thing in Bedroom PC to the GigabitEthernet 2 port on the Home Wireless Router.
>
> **Part 2: Configure the Wireless Router**
> Since the router is fresh, they need to configure to be abled to connect wireless devices like the one laptop in this senario. These steps i went through to complete this part:
>
> I go to the IP configuration of the office pc, (*i choose office pc because this one of wired connected device in router*) I enabled DHCP (*this will request an IP and Default Gate Way so, i dont have to put on to static manually.*). After a successful request, i got the Default Gateway: 192.168.0.1 (*the default gateway address*). I type the default gate way address in Web browser of office PC and the site asked for my credentials. Since newly installed home routers are configured with default credentials, I Enter admin for both the User Name and Password. 
> 
> Now i am in the GUI for the Home Wireless Router, I can now configure the Router. I Locate the Maximum Number of Users field, enter 10. Scroll down to the bottom of the page and click Save Settings. I click the Administration tab. Here, I can change the default admin password. I enter and confirm MyPassword1! as the new password. I scroll to the bottom of the page and click Save Settings.
>
> I scroll back to the top of the window, and then clicked the Wireless tab. For the 2.4 GHz network, I clicked Enable to activate the network radio. I changed the Network Name (SSID) from Default to MyHome. Scrolled to the bottom of the page and clicked Save Settings.
>
> Now I need to configure the security on the MyHome network. Clicked the dropdown menu for the 2.4 GHz network and selected WPA2 Personal. I enter **MyPassPhrase1!** as the Passphrase. Scrolled to the bottom of the page and clicked Save Settings, and then closed the Web Browser for the Office PC.
>
> **Part 3: Configure IP Addressing and Test Connectivity**
> Now that the router is configured, in this part I will configure IP addressing for the PCs and laptop and verify that they can connect to the internet.
>
> I open the laptop and goes to PC Wireless. Clicked the Connect tab. Clicked the name of the network that I created, and then clicked the Connect button. Entered the passphrase that I configured early for the wireless network in the Pre-shared Key field, and then click Connect. Clicked the Link Information tab. I saw the message: You have successfully connected to the access point. Closed the PC Wireless app and opened the Web Browser. Verify that the Laptop can now connect to skillsforall.srv. This verifies that the Laptop has internet connectivity. (they did not specify in steps that I need to configure the IP even though I am at the wireless so, I switch to DHCP first and goes to website.)
>
> I test the 2 PCs if they can connect to internet by doing exact steps I did in laptop. I set the Bedroom PC in DHCP and the 2 PC now can connect to internet by testing in skillsforall.srv site.
>
> Now my completion is now 100%.


> 
> 