# 1.3 What Was Taken?
---

## Content
- [1.3.1 Scenario 1](#131-scenario-1)
- [1.3.2 What Happened?](#132-what-happened)
- [1.3.3 Scenario 2](#133-scenario-2)
- [1.3.4 What Exploit?](#134-what-exploits)
- [1.3.5 Rewind...](#135-rewind)
- [1.3.6 Key Takeaways](#136-key-takeaways)
- [1.3.7 Find Out More](#137-find-out-more)
---

## Module Notes
### 1.3.1 Scenario 1

  Security breaches today are all too common, with attackers constantly finding new and innovative ways of infiltrating organizations in search of valuable information.
  **Scroll down to read the breaking security news headline.**
### 1.3.2 What Happened?

  According to our sources, a well known hotel chain that operates across the world has reported a massive data breach, with the personal information of over three million guests exposed to hackers.

  The hotel discovered that hackers gained access to its customer database by using the login details of one of its employees.

  At this point, the hotel doesn’t believe that the hackers were able to access any account passwords or financial information. Recent guests are encouraged to check the hotel chain’s web portal to see if they have been impacted by this breach.  
  **This is a fictional scenario.***

  **Question:** In this example, what did the hackers take?
  Select the correct answer.
  - The hotel chain’s reputation
  - The card payment information of over three million guests
  - The username and password of all of the hotel’s employees
  - The names, email address and phone numbers of over three million hotel guests
  > My answer: **The names, email address and phone numbers of over three million hotel guests**
  > Result: Correct
### 1.3.3 Scenario 2

  eLearning Platforms at Risk!

  The team at @Apollo is concerned. eLearning platforms are becoming prime targets for attackers as more and more organizations make the move to digital learning.
  - A popular online training platform admitted leaving the personal data of millions of its students (many of them minors) exposed on a publicly accessible cloud database.
  - Hackers were able to directly access students’ full names, email addresses, phone numbers, and school enrollment details from the Internet!
  - While it’s unclear what the hackers have done with this acquired information, it’s safe to say that they have everything they need to carry out widespread phishing or malware attacks.
### 1.3.4 What Exploits?
  
  Question: What exploits did the hackers use in this case to gain access to valuable personal information?
  Select the correct answer
  - Extracting information when the volume of student data exceeds the storage capacity of the platform’s memory buffer
  - Bypassing the platform’s access control methods
  - Taking advantage of student information not being correctly validated on the platform
  - Weaknesses in the platform’s security practices
  > My answer: **Weaknesses in the platform’s security practices**
  > Result: Correct
### 1.3.5 Rewind...

  Every organization is at risk of a cyber attack and therefore must take appropriate action to protect itself.

  **Question:** Thinking back to each of the two security breach examples outlined above, what measures could these organizations have implemented in order to have prevented these security breaches?
  > My answer: These both senario have lack at cybersecurity ppolicies and rules. They should have better employees practice and rules to follow to reduce the risk for breaches like these senarios. employees must have atleast small knowledge about common cyber threats to reduce the risk
### 1.3.6 Key Takeaways

  A security breach is an incident that results in unauthorized access to data, applications, services or devices, exposing private information that attackers can use for financial gain or other advantages.

  But there are many ways to protect yourself and your organization. It’s important to be aware of common cyber threats and remain vigilant so that you don’t become the next victim.
### 1.3.7 Find out More

  Search for a few additional examples of recent security breaches. In each case, can you identify:

  what was taken?
  what exploits the attackers used?
  what actions could be taken to prevent the breach from occurring again in the future?
  Record your findings in this [document](https://www.netacad.com/authoring-resources/courses/ff9e491c-49be-4734-803e-a79e6e83dab1/8d3f83c1-8a9d-516b-bb09-8812ea608e95/en-US/assets/m1-lab-what-was-taken.pdf_en-US_2c96a610-de8e-4321-87c9-d691ab268a91.pdf)
  ### LAB
  #### What was Taken?
  | Incident date | Affected organization | What was taken? | What exploits were used? | How to prevent this security breach? | Reference source |
  |---|---|---|---|---|---|
  | December 2021 | Twitter | Bios, Email Address, Geographic Locations, Names, Phone Numbers, Profile Photos and Usernames | A zero-day vulnerability let anyone submit an email or phone number and find out which Twitter account it was linked to, even for accounts that had privacy settings restricting this. | Invest more in bug bounty programs and rate-limiting API requests | [Twitter](https://privacy.x.com/en/blog/2023/update-about-an-alleged-incident-regarding-twitter-user-data-being-sold-online)

---

### Next Up...

  Given the very real threat to organizational data, it is critical that all organizations develop and implement a comprehensive cybersecurity plan to protect them from potential breaches. But who are they being protected from?