# 1.4 Cyber Attackers
---

## Content
- 1.4.1 Types of Attackers
- 1.4.2 What Color is My Hat?
- 1.4.3 Internal and External Threats
- 1.4.4 What Do You Think?
---

## Module Notes
- Guru
  - 
    Attackers are individuals or groups who attempt to exploit vulnerability for personal or financial gain. As we’ve already seen, they are interested in everything, from credit cards to product designs!
- 1.4.1 Types of Attackers
  - 
    Main types of cyber attackers. They are often categorized as white hat, gray hat or black hat attackers.
    - **Amateurs**  
    The term 'script kiddies' emerged in the 1990s and refers to amateur or inexperienced hackers who use existing tools or instructions found on the Internet to launch attacks. While script kiddies may use basic tools, their attacks can still have devastating consequences.
    - **Hackers**  
    This group of attackers break into computer systems or networks to gain access. Depending on the intent of their break in, they can be classified as white, gray or black hat hackers. 
        - **White hat attackers** break into networks or computer systems to identify any weaknesses so that the security of a system or network can be improved. These break-ins are done with prior permission and any results are reported back to the owner.
        - **Gray hat attackers** may set out to find vulnerabilities in a system but they will only report their findings to the owners of a system if doing so coincides with their agenda. Or they might even publish details about the vulnerability on the internet so that other attackers can exploit it.
        - **Black hat attackers** take advantage of any vulnerability for illegal personal, financial or political gain.
    - **Organized hackers**
     